refactor: Add GraphQL types and schema definitions (#787)
iotaledger/wasp: documentation/docs/guide/evm/examples/ERC721.md

---
title: ERC721 Example
keywords:
- IOTA
- Smart Contracts
- EVM
- Solidity
- ERC721
- eip-721
- token creation
- mint tokens

> description: Solidity smart contract ERC721.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Create and deploy a solidity smart contract to mint NFTs using the ERC721 standard.
```

> image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png

Reviewer: We could replace this with an image from the example :)

Reviewer 2: done.

---

Non-fungible tokens or NFTs are a type of token that can represent any unique object including a real world asset on a decentralised network.

> # Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Yeah. Couldn't find better words for it. "Things you should know before you read this?" 😅

- What is token?
- What is blockchain?
- What are ERCs?
- What is NFT?
- What is a smart contract?
- How to get started with Solidity?

> # About ERC721

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About ERC721
```

- We're using auto-incremental token ids here. `import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";` lib ensures that it keeps incrementing in that order.
- `return "https://example.com/nft/";` You can define what the base URI of your NFTs would be. That means the url we provide here would be considered for all tokens going forward. Since, we're using auto-incremental token ids, our token uri would look something like `https://example.com/nft/0`, `https://example.com/nft/1`, `https://example.com/nft/2`, and so on.
- `function safeMint(address to, string memory uri) public onlyOwner {` is the safeMint function. However, this function would require us to provide manually a `to` address and a `uri` of the token everytime we would want to mint. This should work for regular use-cases.
- Don't worry too much about the license part. `// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT` If you want to keep it unlicensed, you can also write as `// SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicensed`.

![Open Zepplin Wizard](./images/ozw-721.png)

We can customise further depending on what we would want based on primarily the following:

1. Ownership — Who owns it and how is it stored?

> 2. Creation — Method or Type of Creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Creation** — Method or Type of Creation.
```

> 3. Transfer & Allowance — How are tokens transferred and how would it be available to other addresses and accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Transfer & Allowance** — How will tokens be transferred? How will they be available to other addresses and accounts?
```
Does the second part of the question refer to the contract or the tokens?

> 4. Burn — Do we destroy it? If yes, how?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Burn** — Do you want to destroy it? If yes, how?
```

> Now, you can either click on Copy to Clipboard and paste it in the IDE of your choice, or Download it, or click on open in Remix directly. We're going to use Remix for this exercise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click on **Copy to Clipboard** and paste it in the IDE of your choice, download it, or click on open in Remix directly. This example uses Remix.
```
Do we have a link to add to the `download it` call to action?

Reviewer 2: It's on the OpenZepplin Wizard page but we don't want them to download.

> # Compile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compile
```

Compile your Smart Contract to generate the ABI and Bytecode. 

> ![Remix Compile](./images/remix-721.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix Compile](/img/remix-721.png)
```
The images should be placed in the `static/img` directory for the wiki to import them properly in the build process. Please use a descriptive path, for example, `iscp/evm/examples/remix-721.png` to avoid any paths stepping on each other.  Keep in mind that the path needs to match as of img (not static).  If you have any doubts just let me know and we can look at it together.

Reviewer 2: I see. The earlier tutorial was drawn from local images dir. Will change it.

> You can check Auto compile so that you won't have to compile manually with every change you make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check `Auto Compile` so that you do not have to compile manually with every change you make.
```

> So, our smart contract is ready now to be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have successfully compiled your smart contract, you can proceed to [deploy it](#deploy).
```

> # Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy
```

> Connect your IDE to the network where you'd want to deploy the smart contract on. If you're using hardhat or truffle, you can customise the config file accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect your IDE to the network where you want to deploy the smart contract. 

This example uses the [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/) with [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) to handle this task. If you are using hardhat or truffle, you should customize the config file accordingly.
```

> We'll be using [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/) with [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) for the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Connect to the ISCP Testnet using the endpoints as mentioned ([here](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/guide/chains_and_nodes/testnet#endpoints)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect to the ISCP Testnet

 You can find instructions on this in the [devnet endpoints section](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/guide/chains_and_nodes/testnet#endpoints)).```

> Once done, change the environment to Injected Web3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change the Environment to Injected Web3

After you have completed the prior steps, please select the `Injected Web3` network as pictured below.
```

> ![Remix VM Select](./images/remix-vm-injected.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix VM Select](/img/remix-vm-injected.png)
```
Same as the image above.

> Wait for the IDE to sync in. If it doesn't, just refresh and try again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for the IDE to sync. If it does not, please refresh and try again.
```

> Once this is done, Select your Smart Contract from the dropdown. Ideally, you might seen only one option here. However, since we've imported quite a few libs those show up by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Select Your Smart Contract From the Dropdown

### Select Your New Smart Contract 

Once you have [changed the environment to injected web3](#change-the-environment-to-injected-web3), you can proceed to select your Smart Contract from the dropdown. Ideally, you will see only one option here. However, since your contract imports quite a few libs, those may show up by default.
```

> ![Remix Deploy](./images/remix-721-deploy.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix Deploy](/img/remix-721-deploy.png)
```
Same as the other images

> Click on Deploy. This should open the Metamask and ask you to sign the transaction. Please do so and wait for confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Your Contract

Click on `Deploy`. This should open Metamask and ask you to sign the transaction. Please do so and wait for confirmation.
```

> ![Remix Deployed](./images/remix-deployed.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix Deployed](/img/remix-deployed.png)
```
Same as the other images.

> ![Remix Deployed](./images/remix-deployed.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix Deployed](/img/remix-deployed.png)
```
Same as the other images.

> If you see something like this, your contract is now deployed. You can view the same on the explorer. You can explore more from Metamask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see something like this, your contract is now deployed. You can also verify this on the explorer or explore more on Metamask.
```
Do we have a link to the explorer?

> ![Remix Deployed](./images/remix-metamask-detail.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Remix Deployed](/img/remix-metamask-detail.png)
```
Same as the other images.

> Please Note that the node I'm using has 0 gas fee set. However, depending on which node you're deploying to, there might have some gas fee involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
The node which was used in this example has `0` gas fees. However, depending on which node you choose to deploy to, there may be some gas fees.
:::
```
We may want to move this note closer to the beginning, what do you think?

> The above smart contract is generated by OpenZepplin Wizard and is of course good enough to be used. However, we usually want something more added to it. Some modifications that you can try out can be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Possible Next Steps

> - Add Royalty for every transfer done after minting.

Reviewer: Do we have a link for this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The above smart contract is generated by OpenZepplin Wizard and is good enough to be used in production environments. However, you may want more conditions or actions added to it.  For example, you could add royalty for every transfer done after minting.
```
Do we have a link for this? It seems like a nice call to action for another example :)

> # Where to go from here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further Reading
```
